we have this assumption at least in the
21st century at least in western
english-speaking culture that to be good
is to be compromising that compromise is
the sort of fundamental virtue that
opens the gate to all the other social
graces one should always be compromising
and that to be uncompromising
to be inflexible and principled there is
instead a gateway to madness listen to
this podcast listen to the whole podcast
over several days going to the gym
Charlamagne tha God and Andrew Schultz
talking to Joe Rogan I had never before
listen to this guy's act at any length
like this listen for several hours this
kinda within one and the same podcast
within the same three-hour period he
puts forward the idea that he came to a
moral crisis in his life came to an
ethical fork in the road and when he
came to this Joe Rogan decided that
either he had to become vegetarian or he
had to take up hunting so he had a
feeling he had a feeling there was
something deeply immoral about factory
farming and he was either going to
challenge this by rejecting factory
farming by rejecting animal agriculture
as the existing amount of world and
becoming a vegetarian or vegan or he was
going to take up the practice of hunting
and killing animals himself and resolve
the ethical tension in his life in that
way now as you probably already know he
went ahead and did that the curious
thing is that within one in the same
podcast it happens to come up in
conversation between the participants
the subject of what do they require in
there
or in their writer so the writer this is
a slang term for a contract especially
an entertainers contract where they sign
a contract with the venue and the venue
they're performing it has to provide
them with some set of services so a lot
of people like to joke around about this
one of the people in the conversation
said that he just requires they provide
him with bottled water but some people
specify particular food or have
particular outlandish things that want
to be provided to them before they go on
stage so that they'll feel comfortable
and what does Joe Rogan say meet and his
justification for he wants me to
provided was for the sake of his health
so that he doesn't eat junk food as he
put it he wants you know beef he wants
dead animals produced by factory farms
the same factory farms he challenged as
an ethical that I've heard him say many
times he rejects as immoral the same
factory farms that provided the
rationale for him taking up this hobby
of hunting and he has sometimes
suggested that he only or exclusively
eats the meat that he kills with his own
hands on these hunting expeditions as
opposed to the factory farms that he
admits to be immoral now evidently what
really happened here was he was looking
for an excuse any excuse to rationalize
his participation he had the socially
sanctioned system of economic
exploitation of animals and he found
that strangely enough in going hunting
himself in taking on I guess the burden
of debt more directly he then felt less
haunted by his indirect participation in
these unseen evils of you know raising
animals in captivity killing them
cutting up their bodies and consuming
them itself I wish I could say it was
bizarre but I guess the truth
his perspective is dismal and
depressingly normal I was in an internet
forum a couple days ago I think
everybody else in the room is way more
left-wing than I am I'm a kind of
pragmatic nihilistic moderate person one
of the people in this internet
discussion forum was just saying you
know he was talking about a socialist
manifesto a particular book that you
know he feels is it great he said he was
saying oh if only more people would read
this book if only more people would read
this book than they they'd understand
and they'd support his particular
political movement and I said to him
rather than debating the merits of this
particular book could you just concede
the point that any political movement
any social cause that requires the
American people to read a book to
appreciate it is doomed from the health
senate if people got to read a book to
understand what it is you're trying to
accomplish and to sympathizer that it's
supported us cause your cause is going
nowhere I wasn't joking it was funny but
it wasn't joking veganism is so simple
the rationale for it ethically and
ecologically it's so simple that a child
can apprehend it easily and I think that
grown-ups people like people like Joe
Rogan they struggle against it not
despite its simplicity but because of it
they feel it pulling them in like a
force of gravity it's very much what he
described that you know he felt this
ethical pole he felt this you know
pressure on to either accept the logic
of vegetarianism as he
put it and reject animal agriculture or
to challenge it and he decided this
challenge yet by challenging himself to
go out and to go out and hunt go to kill
animals with his own hands what I find
strange and saddening about human nature
is that most people have an excuse
making habit of mind whereby an excuse
for something is an excuse for anything
an excuse for everything so what do I
mean here this is like the person who is
on a diet and trying to lose weight and
then they they eat one chocolate bar and
rather than just having a detach as you
say okay well okay I shouldn't have
eaten that Java bar but now I can
compensate I can you know discipline
myself more and keep my diet or instead
eating the chocolate bar becomes a
pretext to just give up on the diet
entirely and eat a whole bunch of stuff
eat a whole bunch of unhealthy food
that's contrary to the diet they're
trying to maintain you know as long as
there's one one imperfection to provide
a rationale for total self indulgence
they just revert to total
self-indulgence as their default mode of
behavior as if it takes this incredible
ideological edifice it has to be perfect
and seamless and this is one a hole
poked in that edifice then what comes
flooding through the hole is their
intrinsic nature to be a completely self
intelligence come back just because with
you I never have met anyone who took
seriously the kinds of excuses I hear I
mean I hear and I debate with people who
took seriously the excuse that they put
forward that well you know okay maybe
some animals have these higher levels of
cognition and higher levels of
sensitivity and feeling but you know
that they argue against me but what
about the lowly sea cucumber what about
what about animals
in the ocean that don't even have a
brain what about jellyfish they're
translucent you can see right through
them you know they have some complex
behaviors that can tell the difference
between light and darkness you know they
can avoid predators and hunt prey but
nevertheless they had these kinds of
doubts there they drum up some kind of
phony skepticism here I have never once
met or spoken to or even heard of a
person who followed through on that
logically consistently to then say okay
they'll maintain a vegan diet but
they'll remain open to the possibility
that they might one day eat a jellyfish
on the grounds that jellyfish don't have
brains they they have in their mind some
kind of dotted line some kind of
distinction where some animals count and
they put some animals in the same
category as vegetables because they
think a sea cucumber is more like a real
cucumber than it is like a slug or maybe
they'd be willing to eat a slug too I
don't know where they with a trailer I
have never once seen someone who reasons
that way instead they're like the person
clinging you to the fad diet and then
once they get that candy bar that breaks
the diet then then the flood comes
through then then all of their resolve
and self-discipline all of the the even
the moral characteristics they espouse
themselves just disappear just washed
away like it's nothing I mean the Joe
Rogan's mentality is not that hunting
free-range
wild animals can and should replace the
factory farming he says that but it's
not what he really means what he really
means is because he's had this
experience of hunting wild animals he it
frees him it liberates him to live a
life of totally aimless self-indulgence
and that is exactly what he's doing Joe
Rogan does eat cheese he does eat dead
animals that come from factory farms
he's dead animals that come from us
supermarket and a restaurant like
McDonald's and all the rest of it he
does I'm sorry based on hearing that one
that one podcast it's completely
established that he is a liar and a
hypocrite but we live in an epoch when
it has just been normalized it's just
become the predominant mode of human
behavior to live a life of reckless
wanton short-term self-indulgence and
were the primary purpose of human reason
of the higher faculties of the mind
the primary purpose your brain is put to
he is precisely making excuses for that
life
of self-indulgence so that you feel like
a good person or even so that you feel
heroic and when Joe Rogan is out there
with his bow and arrow and with his
dagger killing and cutting up an animal
corpse in the wilderness he feels like a
hero and that in some strange sense is
psychological compensation for the
feeling that started him on this journey
in the first place which was that he
found out the brutal disgusting
exploitative ecological irresponsible
reality of animal agriculture of factory
farming and he felt implicated as the
villain